[1]
I wished, all the mild days of middle March This special year, your blond good-
nature might (Lady) admit—kicking abruptly tight
With will and affection down your breast like starch— Me to your story, in
Spring, and stretch, and arch.
But who not flanks the wells of uncanny light Sudden in bright sand towering? A
bone sunned white.
Considering travellers bypass these and parch.
This came to less yes than an ice cream cone Let stand . . though still my sense
of it is brisk: Blond silky cream, sweet cold, aches: a door shut.
Errors of order! Luck lies with the bone,
Who rushed (and rests) to meet your small mouth, risk Your teeth irregular and
passionate.

[2]
Your shining—where?—rays my wide room with gold; Grey rooms all day,
green streets I visited, Blazed with you possible; other voices bred Yours in
my quick ear; when the rain was cold Shiver it might make shoulders I
behold
Sloping through kite-slipt hours, tingling. I said A month since, ‘I will see that
cloud-gold head, Those eyes lighten, and go by’: then your thunder rolled.
Drowned all sound else, I come driven to learn Fearful and happy, deafening
rumours of
The complete conversations of the angels, now As nude upon some warm lawn
softly turn
Toward me the silences of your breasts . . My vow! . .
One knee unnerves the voyeur sky enough.

[3]
Who for those ages ever without some blood
Plumped for a rose and plucked it through its fence? . .
Till the canny florist, amorist of cents,
Unpawned the peppery apple, making it good
With boredom, back to its branch, as it seems he could,— Vending the thornless
rose. We think our rents Paid, and we nod. O but ghosts crowd, dense,
Down in the dark shop bare stems with their Should Not! Should Not
sleepwalks where no clocks agree!
So I was not surprised, though I trembled, when This morning groping your
hand moaning your name I heard distinctly drip . . somewhere . . and see
Coiled in our joys flicker a tongue again,
The fall of your hair a cascade of white flame.

[4]
Ah when you drift hover before you kiss More my mouth yours now, lips grow
more to mine Teeth click, suddenly your tongue like a mulled wine Slides
fire,—I wonder what the point of life is.
Do, down this night when I adore you, Lise, So I forsake the blest assistant shine
Of deep-laid maps I made for summits, swine-enchanted lover, loafing in the
abyss?
Loaf hardly, while my nerves dance, while the gale Moans like your hair down
here. But I lie still, Strengthless and smiling under a maenad rule.
Whose limbs worked once, whose imagination’s grail Many or some would
nourish, must now I fill My strength with desire, my cup with your tongue,
no more Melpomene’s, but Erato’s fool? . .

[5]
The poet hunched, so, whom the worlds admire, Rising as I came in; greeted me
mildly, Folded again, and our discourse was easy, While he hid in his skin
taut as a wire, Considerate as grace, a candid pyre
Flaring some midday shore; he took more tea, I lit his cigarette . . once I lit
Yeats’ as he Muttered before an Athenaeum fire
The day Dylan had tried to slow me drunk Down to the great man’s club. But
you laught just now Letting me out, you bubbled ‘Liar’ and Laught . . Well,
but thén my breast was empty, monk Of Yeatsian order: yesterday (truth
now) Flooding blurred Eliot’s words sometimes, face not your face, hair not
you blonde but iron.

[6]
Rackman and victim grind: sounds all these weeks Of seconds and hours and
days not once are dumb, And has your footfall really not come
Still? O interminable strength that leaks All day away alert . . I am who seeks
As tautly now, whom the vague creakings strum Jangled this instant, as when the
monstrous hum Your note began!—since when old silence spéaks.
Deep down this building do I sometimes hear Below the sighs and flex of the
travelling world Pyromaniacal whispers? . . Not to be They say would do us
good . . easy . . the mere Lick and a promise of a sweet flame curled Fast on
its wooden love: silence our plea.

[7]
I’ve found out why, that day, that suicide From the Empire State falling on
someone’s car Troubled you so; and why we quarrelled. War, Illness, an
accident, I can see (you cried) But not this: what a bastard, not spring wide!
I said a man, life in his teeth, could care Not much just whom he spat it on . . and
far Beyond my laugh we argued either side.
‘One has a right not to be fallen on! . .’
(Our second meeting . . yellow you were wearing.) Voices of our resistance and
desire!
Did I divine then I must shortly run
Crazy with need to fall on you, despairing?
Did you bolt so, before it caught, our fire?

[8]
College of flunkeys, and a few gentlemen, Of whippersnappers and certain
serious boys, Who better discriminates than I your noise From the lemon
song and black light assertion Of the academies of eternity? . . Your fen—
Yet it’s your fen yields this perfume I poise Full against Helen, and Isotta:
toys
To time’s late action in this girl. Again As first when I sat down amongst your
trees I respect you and am moved by you! Hér you Taught not, nor could,
but comrades of hers you have, She sleeps, she rouses, near you, near she
frees Each morning her strange eyes, eyes that grey blue Not blue . . for
your incurable sins some salve.

[9]
Great citadels whereon the gold sun falls Miss you O Lise sequestered to the
West Which wears you Mayday lily at its breast, Part and not part, proper to
balls and brawls, Plains, cities, or the yellow shore, not false Anywhere,
free, native and Danishest
Profane and elegant flower,—whom suggest Frail and not frail, blond rocks and
madrigals.
Once in the car (cave of our radical love) Your darker hair I saw than golden hair
Above your thighs whiter than white-gold hair, And where the dashboard lit
faintly your least Enlarged scene, O the midnight bloomed . . the East Less
gorgeous, wearing you like a long white glove!

[ 10 ]
You in your stone home where the sycamore More than I see you sees you,
where luck’s grass Smoothes your bare feet more often, even your glass
Touches your hand and tips to your lips to pour Whatever is in it into you,
through which door O moving softness do you just now pass— Your
slippers’ prows curled, red and old—alas With what soft thought for me, at
sea, and sore?
Stone of our situation, iron and stone,
Younger as days to years than the house, yet might Wé stare as little haggard
with time’s roil . .
Who in each other’s arms have lain—lie—one Bite like an animal, both do,
pause, and bite, Shudder with joy, kiss . . the broad waters boil!

[ 11 ]
I expect you from the North. The path winds in Between the honeysuckle and
the pines, among Poison ivy and small flowerless shrubs, Across the red-
brown needle-bed. I sit
Or smoking pace. A moment since, at six, Mist wrapped the knoll, but now birds
like a gong Beat, greet the white-gold level shine. Wide-flung On a
thousand greens the late slight rain is gleaming.
A rabbit jumps a shrub. O my quick darling, Lie torpid so? Cars from the
highway whine, Dawn’s trunks against the sun are black. I shiver.
Your hair this fresh wind would—but I am starting.
To what end does this easy and crystal light Dream on the flat leaves, emerald,
and shimmer? . .

[ 12 ]
Mutinous armed & suicidal grind
Fears on desires, a clutter humps a track, The body of expectation hangs down
slack Untidy black; my love sweats like a rind; Parrots are yattering up the
cagy mind, Jerking their circles . . you stood, a week back, By, I saw your
foot with half my eye, I lack You . . the damned female’s yellow head
swings blind.
Cageless they’d grapple. O where, whose Martini Grows sweeter with my
torment, wrung on toward The insomnia of eternity, loud graves!
Hölderlin on his tower sang like the sea More you adored that day than your
harpsichord, Troubled and drumming, tempting and empty waves.

[ 13 ]
I lift—lift you five States away your glass, Wide of this bar you never graced,
where none Ever I know came, where what work is done Even by these
men I know not, where a brass Police-car sign peers in, wet strange cars
pass, Soiled hangs the rag of day out over this town, A juke-box brains air
where I drink alone, The spruce barkeep sports a toupee alas— My glass I
lift at six o’clock, my darling, As you plotted . . Chinese couples shift in
bed, We shared today not even filthy weather,
Beasts in the hills their tigerish love are snarling, Suddenly they clash, I blow my
short ash red, Grey eyes light! and we have our drink together.

[ 14 ]
Moths white as ghosts among these hundreds cling Small in the porchlight . . I
am one of yours, Doomed to a German song’s stale metaphors, The breasty
thimble-rigger hums my wring.
I am your ghost, this pale ridiculous thing Walks while you slump asleep; ouija
than morse Reaches me better; wide on Denmark’s moors I loiter, and when
you slide your eyes I swing.
The billiard ball slammed in the kibitzer’s mouth Doctor nor dentist could
relieve him of, Injecting, chipping . . too he clampt it harder . .
Squalor and leech of curiosity’s truth
Fork me this diamond meal to gag on love, Grinning with passion, your
astonished martyr.

[ 15 ]
What was Ashore, then? . . Cargoed with Forget, My ship runs down a midnight
winter storm Between whirlpool and rock, and my white love’s form
Gleams at the wheel, her hair streams. When we met Seaward, Thought
frank & guilty to each oar set Hands careless of port as of the waters’ harm.
Endless a wet wind wears my sail, dark swarm Endless of sighs and veering
hopes, love’s fret.
Rain of tears, real, mist of imagined scorn, No rest accords the fraying shrouds,
all thwart Already with mistakes, foresight so short.
Muffled in capes of waves my clear sighs, torn, Hitherto most clear,—Loyalty
and Art.
And I begin now to despair of port.
(AFTER PETRARCH & WYATT)

[ 16 ]
Thrice, or I moved to sack, I saw you: how Without siege laid I can as simply
tell As whether below the dreams of Astrophel Lurks local truth some
scholars would allow And others will deny in ours! O now
The punishing girl met after Toynbee’s bell Tolled for us all I see too bloody
well To say why then I cheapened a blind bow.
Paid at the shore eyes, ears, a shaking hand, A pull of blood; behind you coming
back, Already holding, began to be borne away . .
Held. After Mozart, saw you bend and stand Beside my seat . . held. I recovered.
..RackTheconsumer!IrushedoutRockwellStreetoneday.

[ 17 ]
The Old Boys’ blazers like a Mardi-Gras Burn orange, border black, their
dominoes Stagger the green day down the tulip rows Of the holiday town.
Ever I passioned, ah Ten years, to go where by her golden bra Some sultry
girl is caught, to dip my nose Or dance where jorums clash and King Rex’
hose Slip as he rules the tantrum’s orchestra, Liriodendron, and the Mystick
Krewe!
Those images of Mardi-Gras’ sweet weather Beckoned—but how has their
invitation ceased?
. . The bells brawl, calling (I cannot find you With me there) back us who were
not together.
Our forward Lent set in before our feast.

[ 18 ]
You, Lise, contrite I never thought to see, Whom nothing fazes, no crise can
disconcert, Who calm cross crises all year, flouting, alert, A reckless lady,
in whom alone agree
Of bristling states your war and peace; only Your knuckle broke with smashing
objects, curt Classic dislike, your flowing love, expert Flat stillness on hot
sand, display you wholly.
. . And can you do what you are sorry for? . .
‘I’ll pin you down and put a biscuit on you’
Your childhood hissed: you didn’t: just this side Idolatry, I cannot see you sorry,
darling, no! what other women do
And lie or weep for, flash in your white stride.

[ 19 ]
You sailed in sky-high, with your speech askew But marvellous, and talked like
mad for hours, Slamming and blessing; you transported us, I’d never heard
you talk so, and I knew— Humbler and more proud—you each time undo
My kitcat but to cram it with these powers You bare and bury; suddenly,
late then, as Your best ‘burnt offering’ took me back with you.
No jest but jostles truth! . . I burn . . am led Burning to slaughter, passion like a
sieve Disbands my circling blood the priestess slights.
—‘Remorse does not suit you at all’ he said, Rightly; but what he ragged, and
might forgive, I shook for, lawless, empty, without rights.

[ 20 ]
Presidential flags! and the General is here, Shops have let out, two bands are
raising hell O hell is empty and Knowlton Street is well, The little devils
shriek, an angelic tear Falls somewhere, so (but I laugh) would mine, I fear
The Secret Service rang the rising bell And poor Mr Eliot and the Admiral
Have come, and a damned word nobody can hear.
Two centuries here have been abused our youth: (Your grey eyes pierce the
miles to meet my eyes) The bicentennial of an affair with truth (In the
southern noon whom do you tyrannize?) Not turned out well: the cast girl
sucks her tooth.
(Secret, let us be true time crucifies.)

[ 21 ]
Whom undone David into the dire van sent I’d see as far. I can’t dislike that
man, Grievously and intensely like him even, Envy nor jealousy admit,
consent
Neither to the night of rustlers I frequent Nor to this illness dreams them; but I
can, Only, that which we must: bright as a pan Our love gleams, empty
almost empty—lent.
. . Did he, or not, see? I stood close to you But our lips had broken and you could
reply . .
And is he clement? does he give us rope?
It is the owner drives one crazy, who
Came, or luck brought him, first; a police spy; A kind and good man; with a gun;
hunts hope.

[ 22 ]
If not white shorts—then in a princess gown Where gaslights pierce the mist I’d
have your age, Young in a grey gown, blonde and royal, rage Of handlebars
at Reisenweber’s, frown
Or smile to quell or rally half the town, To polka partners mad, to flout the stage,
To pale The Lily to an average
Woman, looking up from your champagne, or down.
Myself, ascotted, still dumb as a mome
Drinking your eyes . . No Bill comes by to cadge A Scotch in Rector’s, waving
his loose tongue.
I tip my skimmer to your friend who clung Too long, blue-stocking cracked on
the Red Badge Stevie’s becoming known for . . We drive home.

[ 23 ]
They may suppose, because I would not cloy your ear— If ever these songs by
other ears are heard— With ‘love’ and ‘love’, I loved you not, but blurred
Lust with strange images, warm, not quite sincere, To switch a bedroom
black. O mutineer
With me against these empty captains! gird Your scorn again above all at this
word Pompous and vague on the stump of his career.
Also I fox ‘heart’, striking a modern breast Hollow as a drum, and ‘beauty’ I
taboo; I want a verse fresh as a bubble breaks, As little false … Blood of
my sweet unrest Runs all the same—I am in love with you— Trapped in
my rib-cage something throes and aches!

[ 24 ]
Still it pleads and rankles: ‘Why do you love me?’
Replies then jammed me dumb; but now I speak, Singing why each should not
the other seek— The octet will be weaker—in the fishful sea.
Your friends I don’t like all, and poetry You less than music stir to, the blue
streak Troubles me you drink: if all these are weak Objections, they are all,
and all I foresee.
Your choice, though! . . Who no Goliath has slung low.
When one day rushing about your lawn you saw Him whom I might not name
without some awe If curious Johnson should enquire below,
‘Who lifts this voice harsh, fresh, and beautiful?’
—‘As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.’

[ 25 ]
Sometimes the night echoes to prideless wailing Low as I hunch home late and
fever-tired,
Near you not, nearing the sharer I desired, Toward whom till now I sailed back;
but that sailing Yaws, from the cabin orders like a failing Dribble, the stores
disordered and then fired Skid wild, the men are glaring, the mate has wired
Hopeless: locked in, and humming, the Captain’s nailing A false log to the
lurching table. Lies
And passion sing in the cabin on the voyage home, The burgee should fly Jolly
Roger: wind
Madness like the tackle of a crane (outcries Ascend) around to heave him from
the foam
Irresponsible, since all the stars rain blind.

[ 26 ]
Crouched on a low ridge sloping to where you pour No doubt a new drink late
this easy night, The tooth-drawn town dreams . . censorless, can bite
Rebellion, bodies mauled . . but breaks a snore.
Hessians maraud no more, coaches no more
Crash off north, south; only a smooth car’s flight Hums where the brains rest, an
old parasite Sniff then for breakfast while from Bach you soar Easy and live
in the summer dawn, my striker!
Nothing the borough lets be made here, lest The professors and the millionaires
from bed Be startled, the Negroes drop trays, build. The tiger Sprang off
heraldic colours into the West, Where he snoozes . . glossy, and
substantially dead.

[ 27 ]
In a poem made by Cummings, long since, his Girl was the rain, but darling you
are sunlight Volleying down blue air, waking a flight Of sighs to follow like
the mourning iris Your shining-out-of-shadow hair I miss A fortnight and
to-noon. What you excite You are, you are me: as light’s parasite For vision
on . . us. O if my syncrisis Teases you, briefer than Propertius’ in This
paraphrase by Pound—to whom I owe Three letters—why, run through me
like a comb: I lie down flat! under your discipline I die. No doubt of visored
others, though . .
The broad sky dumb with stars shadows me home.

[ 28 ]
A wasp skims nearby up the bright warm air, Immobile me, my poem of you lost
Into your image burning, a burning ghost Between the bricks and fixed eyes,
blue despair To spell you lively in this summerfare
Back from your death of distance, my lute tossed Down, while my ears reel to
your marriage, crossed Brass endless, burning on my helpless glare.
After eighteen years to the Rue Fortunée Balzac brought Hanska, the Count dead
and the lover Not well to live, home, where the black lock stuck Stuck!
stuck! lights blazed, the crazy valet smashed away, Idlers assembled, a
smith ran to discover— Ten weeks, and then turned in (like mine) his luck.

[ 29 ]
The cold rewards trail in, when the man is blind They glitter round his tomb (no
bivouac) : The Rue Fortunée is the Rue de Balzac, The Bach-Gesellschaft
girdles the world; unsigned, The treaty rages freeing him to wind
Mankind about an icy finger. Pack
His laurel in, startle him with gimcrack Recognition.—But O do not remind
Of the hours of morning this indifferent man When alone in a summery cloud he
sweat and knew She, she would not come, she would not come, now Or all
the lime-slow day … Your artisan And men’s, I tarry alike for fame and
you, Not hoping, tame, tapping my warm blank brow.

[ 30 ]
Of all that weeks-long day, though call it back If I will I can—rain thrice, sheets,
a torrent Spaced by the dry sun, Sunday thirst that went Sharp-set from
town to town, down cul-de-sac To smoke a blind pig for a liquid snack,
Did ever beer taste better, when opulent
Over the State line with the State’s consent We cleared our four throats,
climbing off the rack; Lost our way then: our thirst again: then tea With a
velvet jacket over the flowered choker Almost a man, who copied tulips
queerer: Dinner a triumph—of that day I have wholly One moment (weeks
I played the friendly joker) Your eyes married to mine in the car mirror.

[ 31 ]
Troubling are masks . . the faces of friends, my face Met unawares and your
face: where I mum Your doubleganger writhes, wraiths are we come To
keep a festival, none but wraiths embrace; Our loyal rite only we interlace,
Laertes’ winding-sheet done and undone In Ithaca by day and night . . we thrum
Hopeful our shuffles, trusting to our disgrace.
Impostors . . O but our truth our fortunes cup To flash this lying blood. Sore and
austere The crown we cry for, merely to lie ill In grand evasion, questions
not come up.— I am dreaming on the hour when I can hear My last lie
rattle, and then lie truly still.

[ 32 ]
How can I sing, western & dry & thin, You who for celebration should cause
flow The sensual fanfare of D’Annunzio,
Mozart’s mischievous joy, the amaranthine Mild quirks of Marvell, Villon sharp
as tin Solid as sword-death when the man blinks slow And accordions into
the form he’ll know Forever—voices can nearly make me sin
With envy, so they sound. You they saw not, Natheless, alas, unto this epigone
Descends the dread labour, the Olympic hour— When for the garden and the
tape of what We trust, one runs until lung into bone Hardens, runs harder
then . . lucky, a flower.

[ 33 ]
Audacities and fêtes of the drunken weeks!
One step false pitches all down . . come and pour Another . . Strange,
warningless we four
Locked, crocked together, two of us made sneaks— Who can’t get at each other
—midnights of freaks On crepitant surfaces, a kiss blind from the door . .
One head suspects, drooping and vaguely sore, Something entirely sad, skew,
she not seeks . .
‘You’ll give me ulcers if all this keeps up’
You moaned . . One only, ignorant and kind, Saves his own life useful and usual,
Blind to the witch-antinomy I sup
Spinning between the laws on the black edge, blind Head—O do I?—I dance to
disannul.

[ 34 ]
‘I couldn’t leave you’ you confessed next day.
Our law too binds. Grossly however bound And jacketed apart, ensample-
wound,
We come so little and can so little stay Together, what can we know? Anything
may Amaze me: this did. Ah, to work underground Slowly and wholly in
your vein profound . .
Or like some outcast ancient Jew to say: ‘There is Judaea: in it Jerusalem: In that
the Temple: in the Temple’s inmost Holy of holies hides the invisible Ark
— There nothing—there all—vast wing beating dark— Voiceless, the
terrible I AM—the lost
Tables of stone with the Law graved on them!’

[ 35 ]
Nothing there? nothing up the sky alive, Invisibly considering? . . I wonder.
Sometimes I heard Him in traditional thunder; Sometimes in sweet rain, or in a
great ’plane, I’ve Concluded that I heard Him not. You thrive So, where I
pine. See no adjustment blunder?
Job was alone with Satan? Job? O under Hell-ladled morning, some of my hopes
revive: . . Less nakedly malign—loblolly—dull Eyes on our end . . a table
crumples, things Jump and fuse, a fat voice calls down the sky, ‘Too
excitable! too sensitive! thin-skull, I am for you: I shrive your wanderings:
Stand closer, evil, till I pluck your sigh.’

[ 36 ]
Keep your eyes open when you kiss: do: when You kiss. All silly time else,
close them to; Unsleeping, I implore you (dear) pursue In darkness me, as I
do you again
Instantly we part . . only me both then And when your fingers fall, let there be
two Only, ‘in that dream-kingdom’: I would have you Me alone recognize
your citizen.
Before who wanted eyes, making love, so?
I do now. However we are driven and hide, What state we keep all other states
condemn, We see ourselves, we watch the solemn glow Of empty courts we
kiss in . . Open wide!
You do, you do, and I look into them.

[ 37 ]
Sigh as it ends … I keep an eye on your Amour with Scotch,—too cher to
consummate; Faster your disappearing beer than late-ly mine; your naked
passion for the floor; Your hollow leg; your hanker for one more Dark as
the Sundam Trench; how you dilate Upon psychotics of this class, collate
Stages, and . . how long since you, well, forbore.
Ah, but the high fire sings on to be fed Whipping our darkness by the lifting sea
A while, O darling drinking like a clock.
The tide comes on: spare, Time, from what you spread Her story,—tilting a
frozen Daiquiri, Blonde, barefoot, beautiful,
flat on the bare floor rivetted to Bach.

[ 38 ]
Musculatures and skulls. Later some throng Before a colonnade, eagle on goose
Clampt in an empty sky, time’s mild abuse In cracks clear down the fresco print;
among The exaggeration of poses and the long Dogged perspective,
difficult to choose The half-forgotten painter’s lost excuse: A vanished poet
crowned by the Duke for song.
Yours crownless, though he keep four hundred years To be mocked so, will not
be sorry if Some of you keeps, grey eyes, your dulcet lust . .
So the old fiction fools us on, Hope steers Rather us lickerish towards some
hieroglyph Than whelms us home, loinless and sleepy dust.

[ 39 ]
And does the old wound shudder open? Shall I nurse again my days to a girl’s
sight, Feeling the bandaged and unquiet night Slide? Writhe in silly
ecstasy? Banal Greetings rehearse till a quotidian drawl Carols a promise?
Stoop an acolyte
Who stood my master? Must my blood flow bright, Childish, I chilled and
darkened? Strong pulse crawl?
I see I do, it must, trembling I see Grace of her switching walk away from me
Fastens me where I stop now, smiling pain; And neither pride don nor the
fever shed More, till the furor when we slide to bed, Trying calenture for
the raving brain.

[ 40 ]
Marble nor monuments whereof then we spoke We speak of more; spasmodic as
the wasp About my windowpane, our short songs rasp— Not those alone
before their singers choke— Our sweetest; none hopes now with one smart
stroke Or whittling years to crack away the hasp Across the ticking future;
all our grasp Cannot beyond the butt secure its smoke.
A Renaissance fashion, not to be recalled.
We dinch ‘eternal numbers’ and go out.
We understand exactly what we are.
. . Do we? Argent I craft you as the star Of flower-shut evening: who stays on to
doubt I sang true? ganger with trobador and scald!

[ 41 ]
And Plough-month peters out . . its thermal power Squandered in sighs and
poems and hopeless thought, Which corn and honey, wine, soap, wax, oil
ought Upon my farmling to have chivvied into flower.
I burn, not silly with remorse, in sour
Flat heat of the dying month I stretch out taut: Twenty-four dawns the topaz
woman wrought To smile to me is gone. These days devour Memory: what
were you elbowed on your side?
Supine, your knee flexed? do I hear your words Faint as a nixe, in our grove,
saying farewells? . .
At five I get up sleepless to decide
What I will not today do; ride out: hear birds Antiphonal at the dayspring, and
nothing else.

[ 42 ]
The clots of age, grovel and palsy, crave Mádmen: to gasp, unreasonably weep,
Gravid with ice, staving invincible sleep. . .
Still as I watch this two tonight I waive Half of my fear, envy sues even: grave,
Easy and light with juniors, he, and steep In his honours she, beloved,
wholly they keep Together, accustomed; hircine excitement gave No joy so
deep, and died . . Fill my eyes with tears, I stare down the intolerable years
To the mild survival—where, you are where, where?
‘I want to take you for my lover’ just You vowed when on the way I met you:
must Then that be all (Do) the shorn time we share?

[ 43 ]
You should be gone in winter, that Nature mourn With me your anarch
separation, call—
ing warmth all with you: as more poetical Than to be left biting the dog-days,
lorn Alone when all else burgeons, brides are born, Children yet (some)
begotten, every wall Clasped by its vine here . . crony alcohol Comfort as
random as the unicorn.
Listen, for poets are feigned to lie, and I For you a liar am a thousand times,
Scars of these months blazon like a decree: I would have you—a liner pulls the
sky— Trust when I mumble me. Than gin-&-limes You are cooler, darling,
O come back to me.

[ 44 ]
Bell to sore knees vestigial crowds, let crush One another nations sottish and a-
prowl, Talon the Norway rat to a barn owl
At wind-soft midnight; split the sleepy hush With sirens; card-hells create; from
a tower push The frantic hesitator; strike a rowel
To a sad nag; probe, while they whiten & howl, With rubber gloves the
prisoners’ genial slush; Enact our hammer time; only from time
Twitch while the wind works my beloved and me Once with indulgent tongs for
a little free,— Days, deer-fleet years, to be a paradigm For runaways and
the régime’s exiles.
..Thewindlifts,soon,thecoldwindreconciles.

[ 45 ]
Boy twenty-one, in Donne, shied like a blow,— His prose, from poems’
seductive dynamite,— I read ‘The adulterer waits for the twilight . .
The twilight comes, and serves his turn.’ (Not so: Midnight or dawn.) I stuttered
frightened ‘No, Nóne could decline, crookt, ghastly, from the sight Of
elected love and love’s delicious rite
Upon the livid stranger Loves forego.’
. . I am this strange thing I despised; you are.
To become ourselves we are these wayward things.
And the lies at noon, months’ tremblings, who foresaw?
And I did not foresee fraud of the Law
The scarecrow restraining like a man, its rings Blank . . my love’s eyes familiar
as a scar!

[ 46 ]
Are we? You murmur ‘not’. What of the night Attack on the dark road we could
not contain, Twice I slid to you sudden as the stain Joy bloods the wanderer
at the water’s sight, And back, but you writhed on me . . as I write I tremble
. . trust me not to keep on sane Until you whisper ‘Come to me again’
Unless you whisper soon. O come we soon Together dark and sack each other
outright, Doomed cities loose and thirsty as a dune . .
Lovers we are, whom now the on-tide licks.
Our fast of famed sleep stirs, darling, diurnal,— Hurry! till we, beginning our
eternal
Junket on the winds, wake like a ton of Styx.

[ 47 ]
How far upon these songs with my strict wrist Hard to bear down, who knows?
None is to read But you: so gently . . but then truth’s to heed, The sole
word, near or far, shot in the mist.
Double I sing, I must, your utraquist, Crumpling a syntax at a sudden need,
Stridor of English softening to plead O to you plainly lest you more resist.
‘Arthur lay then at Caerlon upon Usk . .’
I see, and all that story swims back . . red Satin over rushes . . Mother’s voice at
dusk.
So I comb times and men to cram you rare: ‘Faire looketh Ceres with her yellow
Haire’— Fairer you far O here lie filteréd.

[ 48 ]
I’ve met your friend at last, your violent friend, Laughter out of a hard life; and
she out, Treating in talk one door really as shut That should be shut, gashes
will hardly mend.
‘Here is Katrina’ at the other end
Of telephones . . ‘Heck, I feel wonderful! . .’
And so do I when I am with her, but
I would she knew she lashed me where I bend.
And so do I when I am with her, only
Her ‘they’ and ‘harmony’ harry me lone and wild.
. . How she loves you! and then to disarrange, Powerful chemist, all the years
she’s filed With stubborn work, for the law! . . she means to change.
So do I mean,—less (when I rise up) lonely.

[ 49 ]
One note, a daisy, and a photograph, To slake this siege of weeks without you,
all.
Your dawn-eyed envoy, welcome as Seconal, To call you faithful . . now this
cenotaph, A shabby mummy flower. Note I keep safe, Nothing, on a ration
slip a social scrawl— Not that it didn’t forth some pages call Of my
analysis, one grim paragraph.
The snapshot then—your eyes down, your hair bound: Your power leashed, but
too your blaze is dim . .
By the sea, thinking, long before we met; Akimbo from your nape, what petrels
round (Out of the print) your unsuspicious slim Dear figure, warning
‘Dream of him
now you not know whom you will not forget.’

[ 50 ]
They come too thick, hail-hard, and all beside Batter, necessities of my nights
and days, My proper labour that my storm betrays Weekly lamented,
weakly flung aside;
What in the musical wind to work but glide Among the wind, willing my eyes
should daze Fast on her image, for an exhaustless phrase, While themes
throng, the rapt world one & hers & wide.
They crowd on, crowning what I perforce complain Remorseful in my journal
of, and lest Thick they fall thin, I beg the calm belongs,— Traditional
meditation. But when my rein Fails most, still I race feeble to protest These
two months . . decades of excited songs.

[ 51 ]
A tongue there is wags, down in the dark wood O: Trust it not. It trills malice
among friends, Irrelevant squibs and lies, to its own ends Or to no ends,
simply because it would O.
To us, us most I hear, it prinks no good O; Has its idea, Jamesian; apprehends
Truth non-aviarian; meddles, and ‘defends’
Honour free . . that such a bill so wily should O!
Who to my hand all year flew to be fed
Makes up his doubts to dart at us . . Ah well, Did you see the green of that
catalpa tree?— A certain jackal will lose half its head For cheek, our keek,
our hairy philomel.— How can you tell?—A little bird told me.

[ 52 ]
A sullen brook hardly would satisfy
The Winter-traveller slumps near, Stony Brook; Prattle of brooks it scorns, only
in some crook Fetches again and now a muddy sigh
Reaches me here.—A liner rocks the sky, I shudder beneath the trees. I brought a
book, Shut on my brown knee. Once I rise and look Under the bridge-arch.
The third day of July.
Close, going back, I pass (still as a mouse) The fatuous stranger in the stone
strong home Now you and my friend your husband are away.
And I must gnaw there somewhy. Double day: In the end I race by cocky as a
comb, Adust . . Da ist meiner Liebstens Haus.

[ 53 ]
Some sketch sweat’ out, unwilling swift & crude, A hundred more like bats in
swelter-day A-lunge about my office, I’m away
Downstairs for coffee, and to rest, and brood.
. . The mots fly, and the flies mope on the food Where all-age adolescents swig
and bray, An ice-cream-soda jag, the booths are gay . .
The ass-eyes after me unlid, protrude.
And I have fled antcrazy to my task
In the hotbox at the top of Upper Wyne To work their children music! as ice
cubes Pleasing, colder keeping, more than they ask, As worthy of them—
not of you . . No sign . .
Ermite-amateur in the midst of the boobs.

[ 54 ]
It was the sky all day I grew to and saw.
I cycled southeast through the empty towns, Flags hanging out, between the
summer grains, Meeting mainly the azure minions of our law.
Near our fake lake an artificial pool
Was full of men and women; all the rest, Shore for the Fourth. I crookt two
roses. Most I studied the sky’s involuntary rule.
I followed a cloud and finally I caught it, Springing my ribbon down the world
of green . .
Shadow to shadow, under tropical day . .
Flat country, slow, alone. So in my pocket Your snapshot nightmares where
(cloth, flesh between) My heart was, before I gave it away.

[ 55 ]
When I recall I could believe you’d go I start. I can’t believe you will come
back.
Months on to Monday, and then Monday’s rack Uncertain up the sky unseen
winds blow Bringing what weather I cannot foreknow.
Still I see better in my almanac
Your coming, than in the columns white & black My going later. All our plans
outgrow My local eyes, locked where somehow we draw Somewhat
together, wince to a single goad, Each other steady . . steadily closer . .
keep.
Closer: against the departures of our law Let’s Dido-like ‘forge causes of abode’
Whom the sliding stars wheedle as one to sleep.

[ 56 ]
Sunderings and luxations, luxe, and grief-unending exile from the original
spouse, Dog-fights! one bites intimate as a louse The lousy other, Love the
twitching leaf Wide to the weather, hangover-long, jag-brief, Nulliparous
intensities, or as mouse
To cats the child to broken parents, house Sold, books divided . . divorce as a
relief . .
We discussed, drinking, one sad afternoon In a Connecticut house in cloudy
June,
Thinking, whoever was mentioned, still of others.
I thought of you,—come we too to this vile Loose fagend? earlier still loves so
defile? . .
Could our incredible marriage . . like all others’ . . ?

[ 57 ]
Our love conducted as in heavy rain
Develops hair and lowers its head: the lash And weight of rain breed, like the
soundless slosh Divers make round a wrack, régime, domain Invisible, to us
inured invisible stain Of all our process; also lightning flash Limns us
audacious and furtive, whom slow crash On crash jolt like the mud-and
storm-blind Wain.
If the rain ceased and the unlikely sun Shone out! . . whom our stars shake, could
we emerge Trustful and clear into the common rank,— So long deceiving?
—Days when Dathan sank Quick to the pit not past, darling, we verge
Daily O there: have strange changes begun?

[ 58 ]
Sensible, coarse, and moral; in decent brown; Its money doling to an orphanage;
Sober . . well-spirited but sober; sage Plain nourishing life nor you nor I could
down I doubt, our blinkers lost, blood like a clown Dancing upon a one-
night hot-foot stage, Brains in a high wind, high brains, the next page
Trembling,—the water’s fine, come in and drown.
Since the corruption of the working classes I am speaking of the Eighteenth
Century: kisses Opening on betrothals, love like a vise.
Where shawm and flute flutter the twilight, where Conjugal, toothless, has a
booth at the Fair, The Reno brothels boom, suddenly we writhe.

[ 59 ]
Loves are the summer’s. Summer like a bee Sucks our best off, thigh-brushes,
and is gone.
The yellow pollen upon the white winds blown Settles. I feel the summer
draining me, I lean back breathless in an agony
Of charming loss I suffer without moan, Without my love, or with my love
alone.
She left me in the Spring, or I say wé Left before there we bloomed our secret
garden!
The ghosts of breezes widowy small paths wander, A fruitless bird pipes its
surprising sorrow.
When will she, she come back? . . against whom I harden My effortless ghost in
vain, who moved asunder Flowers at the come of summer beautiful and
narrow.

[ 60 ]
Today is it? Is it today? I shudder
For nothing in my chair, and suddenly yawn.
Today I suddenly believe. Since dawn
When I got up, my muscles like a rudder Strain crosswise from this work. I rise
and mutter Something, and hum, pace, and sit down again Hard. A butterfly
in my shoulder then
Stops and aches. My stomach swings like a shutter.
As the undergrounds piston a force of air Before their crash into the station, you
Are felt before your coming, and the platforms shake.
So light, so small, so far still, to impair Action and peace so . . risks we take
make true Maybe our safeties . . come for our risk’s sake.

[ 61 ]
Languid the songs I wish I willed . . I try . .
Smooth songs untroubled like a silver spoon To pour your creamy beauty back,
warm croon Blind, soft . . but I have something in my eye, I see by fits, see
what there, rapid and sly, Difficult, so that it will be off soon,
I’d better fix it! frantic as a loon, Smarting, world-churned, some convulsed song
I cry.
Well . . (also I plead, I have something in mind, My bobsled need, the need for
me you’ll find If you look deeper: study our winter-scene) . .
Thinking is well, but worse still to be caught The wholly beautiful just beyond
thought,— Small trees in mist far down an endless green!

[ 62 ]
Tyranny of your car—so much resembles
Beachwagons all, all with officious hope Conscript my silly eyes—offers a trope
For your grand sway upon these months my shambles: Your cleaver now to
other women’s brambles I’ll not contrast—no, all of you have scope, Teeth
breasts tongues thighs eyes hair: as rope to rope You point to point
compare, and the subject trembles.
What makes yóu then this ominous wide blade I’d run from O unless I bleat to
die?
Nothing: you are not: woman blonde, called Lise.
It is I lope to be your sheep, to wade Thick in my cordial blood, to howl and sigh
As I decide . . if I could credit this.

[ 63 ]
Here too you came and sat a time once, drinking.
I could have cut their throats to be alone.
Yet all the hour I slumped here like a stone My heart smiled, I smiled while my
heart was sinking.
Happier than I seemed for their hoodwinking, My smile was under . . over . . so
was the moan Arcane I kept out of the ‘master’ tone
Native to me I adopted . . my rabid thinking.
Juggler and cull! and places, words, call up Inscrutable disturbance bound to you
Partout! partout some crowning or some crime; As Julian spending a nickel,
Wid a dime, Mazes of instant silence must pursue,— Obsession’s
hypocrites, time’s, their own dupe.

[ 64 ]
The dew is drying fast, a last drop glistens White on a damaged leaf not far from
me.
A pine-cone calmed here in a red-brown sea Collects its straying forces now and
listens: A veery calls; south, a slow whistle loosens My lone control. The
flat sun finally
Flaws through the evergreen grove, and can be he— If Lise comes—our
renewed love lights and christens.
Tarry today? . . weeks the abandoned knoll And I have waited. The needles are
soft . . feel.
The village bell, or the college, tells me seven.
Much longer not sustains—will it again?— Castaway time I scrabble tooth and
nail, I crush a cigarette black, and go down.

[ 65 ]
Once when they found me, some refrain ‘Quoi faire?’
Striking my hands, they say repeatedly I muttered; although I could hear and see
I knew no one.—I am silent in my chair, And stronger and more cold is my
despair At last, for I have come into a country Whose vivid Queen upon no
melody
Admits me. Manchmal glaub ich, ich kann nicht mehr.
Song follows song, the chatterer to the fire Would follow soon . . Deep in Ur’s
royal pits Sit still the courtly bodies, a little bowl By each, attired to
voluntary blitz . .
In Shub-ad’s grave the fingers of a girl Were touching still, when they found her,
the strings of her lyre.

[ 66 ]
Astronomies and slangs to find you, dear, Star, art-breath, crowner, conscience!
and to chart For kids unborn your distal beauty, part On part that startles,
till you blaze more clear And witching than your sister Venus here To a late
age can, though her senior start Is my new insomnia,—swift sleepless art
To draw you even . . and to draw you near.
I prod our English: cough me up a word, Slip me an epithet will justify
My daring fondle, fumble of far fire
Crackling nearby, unreasonable as a surd, A flash of light, an insight: I am the
shy Vehicle of your cadmium shine . . your choir.

[ 67 ]
Faith like the warrior ant swarming, enslaving Or griding others, you gave me
soft as dew, My darling, drawing me suddenly into you, Your arms’ strong
kindness at my back, your weaving Thighs agile to me, white teeth in your
heaving Hard, your face bright and dark, back, as we screw Our lives
together—twin convulsion—blue
Crests curl, to rest . . again the ivy waving.
Faiths other fall. Afterwards I kissed you So (Lise) long, and your eyes so
waxed, marine, Wider I drowned . . light to their surface drawn Down met
the wild light (derelict weeks I missed you Leave me forever) upstreaming;
never-seen, Your radiant glad soul surfaced in the dawn.

[ 68 ]
Where the lane from the highway swerves the first drops fell Like lead, I bowed
my head and drifted up.
Now in the grove they pat like footsteps, but Not hers, Despair’s. In slant lines
sentinel Silver and thin, it rains so into Hell, Unvisited these thousand
years. I grope A little in the wind after a hope
For sun before she wakes . . all might be well.
All might yet be well . . I wandered just Down to the upper lane now, the sky
was clearing, And as I scrawl, the sun breaks. Ah, what use?
She said if rain, no,—in vain self-abuse I lie a fairy well! cloud disappearing Not
lonelier, leaving like me: we must.

[ 69 ]
For you am I collared O to quit my dear My sandy-haired mild good and most
beautiful Most helpless and devoted wife? I pull Crazy away from this; but
too from her Resistlessly I draw off, months have, far And quarrelling—
irrelation—numb and dull Dead Sea with tiny aits . . Love at the full Had
wavered, seeing, foresuffering us here.
Unhappy all her lone strange life until Somehow I friended it. And the Master
catches Me strongly from behind, and clucks, and tugs.
He has, has he? my heart-relucting will.
She spins on silent and the needle scratches.
—This all, Lise? and stark kisses, stealthy hugs?

[ 70 ]
Under Scorpion both, back in the Sooner State Where the dry winds winnow the
soul, we both were born, And we have cast our origin, and the Horn
Neither has frankly scanted, others imitate Us; and we have come a long way,
late
For depth enough, betimes enough for torn
Hangnails of nerves and innocent love, we turn Together in this vize lips, eyes,
our Fate.
When the cam slid, the prodigious fingers tightened And we began to fuse, weird
afternoon
Early in May (the Third), we both were frightened; A month we writhed, in
sudden love like a scrimmage; June’s wide loss worse; the fortnight after
June Worst. Vize and woe worked us this perfect image!

[ 71 ]
Our Sunday morning when dawn-priests were applying Wafer and wine to the
human wound, we laid Ourselves to cure ourselves down: I’m afraid Our
vestments wanted, but Francis’ friends were crying In the nave of pines,
sun-satisfied, and flying Subtle as angels about the barricade
Boughs made over us, deep in a bed half made Needle-soft, half the sea of our
simultaneous dying.
‘Death is the mother of beauty.’ Awry no leaf Shivering with delight, we die to
be well . .
Careless with sleepy love, so long unloving.
What if our convalescence must be brief As we are, the matin meet the passing
bell? . .
About our pines our sister, wind, is moving.

[ 72 ]
A Cambridge friend put in,—one whom I used To pay small rope at chess to,
who in vain Luffed up to free a rook,—and through the strain Of ten-year-
old talk cocktails partly loosed I forgot you, forgot you, for the first Hour in
months of watches . . Mozart’s pain I heard then, in the cranny of the
hurricane, As since the chrisom caught me up immersed I have heard
nothing but the sough of the sea And wide upon the open sea my friend The
sea-wind crying, out of its cave to roam No more, no more . . until my
memory Swung you back like a lock: I sing the end, Tolerant Aeolus to call
me home.

[ 73 ]
Demand me again what Kafka’s riddles mean, For I am the penal colony’s prime
scribe: From solitary, firing against the tribe Uncanny judgments ancient
and unclean.
I am the officer flat on my own machine, Priest of the one Law no despair can
bribe, On whom the mort-prongs hover to inscribe ‘I FELL IN LOVE’ . . O
none of this foreseen, Adulteries and divorces cold I judged
And strapped the tramps flat. Now the harrow trembles Down, a strap snaps, I
wave—out of control— To you to change the legend has not budged These
years: make the machine grave on me (stumbles Someone to latch the strap)
‘I MET MY SOUL’.

[ 74 ]
All I did wrong, all the Grand Guignol years, Tossed me here still able to touch
you still.
I took the false turn on the fantastic hill Continually, until the top appears.
Even my blind (last night) disordered tears Conducted me to-morning. When I
grew ill Two years, I only taxed my doctors’ skill To pass me to you fixed .
. The damned sky clears Into a decent sun (this week’s the worst Ever I see-
saw) half an hour: this town My tomb becomes a kind of paradise . .
How then complain? Rain came with a burst, Ridding the sky. Was it this evil
clown Or surviving lover you called to you? . . twice.
18 July

[ 75 ]
Swarthy when young; who took the tonsure; sign, His coronation, wangled, his
name re-said For euphony; off to courts fluttered, and fled; Professorships
refused; upon one line
Worked years; and then that genial concubine.
Seventy springs he read, and wrote, and read.
On the day of the year his people found him dead I read his story. Anew I
studied mine.
Also there was Laura and three-seventeen Sonnets to something like her . .
twenty-one years . .
He never touched her. Swirl our crimes and crimes.
Gold-haired (too), dark-eyed, ignorant of rimes Was she? Virtuous? The old
brume seldom clears.
—Two guilty and crepe-yellow months
Lise! be our bright surviving actual scene.

[ 76 ]
The two plantations Greatgrandmother brought My bearded General, back in a
world would burn, I thresh excited as I see return
Odd in this symbol you me last night taught . .
Your Two-fields rapt into the family ought To save us: sensitivity, elegant, fern-
subtle, knit upon vigour enough to turn A nation’s strong decline. I grind
my thought A bit more, and I bare the quick of the have And have not, half
have, less than half, O this Fantasy of your gates ajar, gates barred.
Poaching and rack-rent do you hope will save True to ourselves us, darling?
owners, Lise!— Heiress whose lovely holdings lie
too forkt for truth; called also Kierkegaard.

[ 77 ]
Fall and rise of her midriff bells. I watch.
Blue knee-long shorts, striped light shirt. Bright between Copt hills of the
cushion a lazy green
Her sun-incomparable face I watch.
A darkness dreams adown her softest crotch, A hand dreams on her breast, two
fingers lean, The ring shows like a wound. Her hair swirls clean Alone in
the vague room’s morning-after botch.
Endymion’s Glaucus through a thousand years Collected the bodies of lovers
lost, until His own beloved’s body rustled and sighed . .
So I would, O to spring—blotting her fears, The others in this house, the house,
road, hill— As once she up the stair sprang to me, lips wide!

[ 78 ]
On the wheat-sacks, sullen with the ceaseless damp, William and I sat hours and
talked of you, I talked of you. Potting porter. Just a few Fireflies were out,
no stars, no moon; no lamp.
The Great Dane licked my forearm like a stamp, Surprisingly, in total darkness.
Who
Responds with peaceful gestures, calm and new This while, your home-strong
love’s ferocious tramp?
Insonorous and easy night! I lusk,
Until we rise and strike rake-handles in The nervous sacks to prod and mix with
air; Lest a flame sing out invisible and brusk About the black barn . .
Kingston (and my chin Sank on the rake-end) suddenly
I longed for sick, your toxic music there.

[ 79 ]
I dreamt he drove me back to the asylum Straight after lunch; we stood then at
one end, A sort of cafeteria behind, my friend Behind me, nuts in groups
about the room; A dumbwaiter with five shelves was waiting (some-thing’s
missing here) to take me up—I bend And lift a quart of milk to hide and
tend, Take with me. Everybody is watching, dumb.
I try to put it first among some worm-shot volumes of the N. E. D. I had On the
top shelf —then somewhere else . . slowly Lise comes up in a matron’s
uniform
And with a look (I saw once) infinitely sad In her grey eyes takes it away from
me.

[ 80 ]
Infallible symbolist!—Tanker driven ashore, An oil-ship by a tropical hurricane
Wrecked on a Delaware beach, the postcard’s scene; On the reverse, words
without signature: Je m’en fiche du monde sans toi—in your Hand for years
busy in the liquid main
To tank you on—your Tulsa father’s vein, Oil. All the worked and wind-slapt
waters roar.
O my dear I am sorry, sorry, and glad! and glad To trope you helpless, there, and
needing me, Where the dangerous land meets the disordered sea . .
Rich on the edge we wait our salvage, sad And joyous, nervous, that the hired
men come Whom we require, to split us painfully home.

[ 81 ]
Four oval shadows, paired, ringed each by sun, The closer smaller pair behind,
third pair Beating symmetrical to the sides in air Apparently—the water-
spiders’ dun
Bodies above unlike their shadows run, Skim with six wires about a black-
backed, fair-bellied and long tube which does not appear In the atomic
drawings on the shallow mud.
My shadow on the vines and water should— If so it were as Gath in Babylon—
Show a lover’s neurons waiting for a letter, Brook near the postbox, or man’s
fission’s crack Of comfortable doom. Wé do this better: . .
A solid hypocrite squats there in black.

[ 82 ]
Why can’t, Lise, why shouldn’t they fall in love?
Mild both, both still in mix of studies, still Unsteadied into life, novices of the
will, Formed upon others (us), disciples of The Master and the revisionists:
enough Apart from their attraction, to unstill The old calm loves (cyclonic
loves) until The electric air shocks them together, rough, But better in love
than grief, who can afford No storms (ours). Fantasy! … Forget.
—I write this leaving Pennsylvania’s farms, Seats 37, 12 Standees, I am tired
Unspeakably of standing: Kiss me, and let Let me sit down and take you in my
arms.

[ 83 ]
Impossible to speak to her, and worse To keep on silent, silent hypocrite
Bound for my kindness or my lack of it Solely to strength you crumple or you
nurse By not being or being with me. Curse This kindness tricks her to
think bit by bit We will be more together . . better . . sit The poor time out,
and then the good rehearse— When neither my fondness nor my pity can O
no more bend me to Esther with love, Gladden the sad eyes my lost eyes
have seen With such and so long ache, ah to unman.
When she calls, small, and grieving I must move, The horror and beauty of your
eyes burn between.

[ 84 ]
I wished, all the mild days of middle March This special year, your blond good-
nature might (Lady) admit—kicking abruptly tight
With will and affection down your breast like starch— Me to your story, in
Spring, and stretch, and arch.
But who not flanks the wells of uncanny light Sudden in bright sand towering? A
bone sunned white.
Considering travellers bypass these and parch.
This came to less yes than an ice cream cone Let stand . . though still my sense
of it is brisk: Blond silky cream, sweet cold, aches: a door shut.
Errors of order! Luck lies with the bone,
Who rushed (and rests) to meet your small mouth, risk Your teeth irregular and
passionate.

[ 85 ]
Spendthrift Urethra—Sphincter, frugal one— Masters from darkness in your
double sway Whom favouring either all chaotic stray— Adjust us to our
love! . . Unlust undone, Wave us together out of the running sun Suddenly,
and rapt from our shore-play, My loss your consolation and protégé,
Down at a stroke whelmed, while the waters run.
O serious as our play, my nervous plea!
. . Hallucinatory return to the warm and real Dark, still, happy apartment after
the riot . .
Wounded, be well, and sleep sound as the sea Vexed in wide night by no wind,
but the wheel Roils down to zero . . steady . . archaic quiet.

[ 86 ]
Our lives before bitterly our mistake!—
We should have been together seething years, We should have been the tomb-bat
hangs and hears Sounds inconceivable, been a new snowflake, We should
have been the senile world’s one sake, Vestigial lovers, tropical and fierce
Among fatigues and snows, the gangs and queers, We should have been the
bloom of a cockcrow lake.
. . A child’s moon, child’s fire!—What I love of you Inter alia tingles like a
whole good day, A hard wind, or a Strad’s consummate pluck, Proficient,
full and strong, shrewd as the blue Profound sky, pale as a winter sky you
lay And with these breasts whiter than stars gave suck.

[ 87 ]
Is it possible, poor kids, you must not come out?
Care for you none but Lise, to whom you cry?
Here in my small book must you dance, then die?
Rain nor sun greet you first, no friendly shout?
If the army stands, moves not ahead one scout?
Sits all your army ever still, small fry?
And never to all your letters one reply?
No echo back, your games go on without?

Dignity under these conditions few
I feel might muster steadily, and you
Jitterbug more than you pavanne, poor dears . .
Only you seem to want to hunt the whole House through, scrutators of the
difficult soul Native here—and pomp’s not for pioneers.

[ 88 ]
Anomalous I linger, and ignore
My blue conviction she will now not come Whose grey eyes blur before me like
some sum A shifting riddle to fatigue . . I pore . .
Faster they flicker, and flag, moving on slower, And I move with them—who am
I? a scum
Thickens on a victim, a delirium
Begins to mutter, which I must explore.
O rapt as Monteverdi’s ‘. . note . . note . .’
I glide aroused—a rumour? or a dream?
An actual lover? Elmo’s light? erlking?
—‘I know very well who I am’ said Don Quixote.
The sourceless lightning laps my stare, the stream Backs through the wood, the
cosy spiders cling.

[ 89 ]
‘If long enough I sit here, she, she’ll pass.’
This fatuous, and suffering-inversion, And Donne-mimetic, O and true assertion
Tolls through my hypnagogic mind; alas I hang upon this threshold of
plate-glass, Dry and dull eyes, in the same weird excursion As from myself
our love-months are, some Persian Or Aztec supersession—the land mass
Extruded first from the archaic sea,
Whereon a desiccation, and species died Except the one somehow learnt to
breathe air: Unless my lungs adapt me to despair,
I’ll nod off into the increasing, wide, Marvellous sleep my hope lets herald me.

[ 90 ]
For you an idyl, was it not, so far, Flowing and inconvulsive pastoral, I suddenly
made out tonight as, all The pallor of your face lost like a star, It clenched
and darkened in your avatar, The goddess grounded. Lovers’ griefs appal
Women, who with their honey brook their gall And succor as they can the
men they mar.
Down-soft my joy in the beginning, O
Dawn-disenchanted since, I hardly remember The useful urine-retentive years I
sped.
—I said as little as I could, sick; know Your strange heart works; wish us into
September Only alive, and lovers, and abed.

[ 91 ]
Itself a lightning-flash ripping the ‘dark Backward’ of you-before, you harrowed
me How you and the wild boy (larcener-to-be) Took horses out one night,
full in the stark Pre-storm midnight blackness, for a lark, At seventeen,
drunk, and you whipt them madly About the gulph’s rim, lightning-split,
with glee About, about. A decade: . . I embark.
How can we know with whom we ride, or soon Or later, ever? You . . what are
yóu like?
A topic’s occupied me months, month’s mind.
But I more startled may, than who shrank down And wiped his sharp eyes with a
helpless look, The great tears falling, when Odysseus struck him, find.

[ 92 ]
What can to you this music wakes my years (I work you here a wistful
specimen)
Be, to you affable and supple, when
The music they call music fills your ears?
Room still? Alive O to my animals’ tears?
Haunted by cagy sighs? The cries of men Versed are you in? Your
Tetragrammaton— Bach, Mozart, Beethoven & Schubert—hears.
No quarrel here once! Pindar sang both sides,— Two thousand years their easy
marriage lasted, Until some coldness grew . . they moved apart . .
Only one now to rile the other rides
Sometimes, neither will say how he has fasted, They stare with desire, and spar .
. and crib . . and part.

[ 93 ]
The man who made her let me climb the derrick At nine (not far from—four—
another child) Produced this steady daring keeps us wild . .
I remember the wind wound on me like a lyric.
One resignation on to more, some cleric Has told us, helms, would make the
Devil mild At last; one boldness so in the spirit filed Brings boldness on—
collective—atmospheric— Character in the end, contented on a slope
Brakeless, a nervy ledge . . we overgrow My derrick into midnights and
high dawn, The riot where I’m happy—still I hope Sometime to dine with
you, sometime to go Sober to bed, a proper citizen.

[ 94 ]
Most strange, my change, this nervous interim.— The utter courtship ended,
tokens won,
Assurance salted down . . all this to stun More than excite: I blink about me grim
And dull and anxious, rather than I skim Light bright & confident: like a
weak pun I stumble neither way: Hope weighs a ton: Tired certainly, but
much less tired than dim.
—I were absence’ adept, a glaring eye;
Or I were agile to this joy, this letter, You say from Fox Hill: ‘I am not the
same.’— No more am I: I’m neither: without you I Am not myself. My
sight is dying. Better The searchlights’ torture which we overcame!

[ 95 ]
‘Old Smoky’ when you sing with Peter, Lise, Sometimes at night, and your
small voices hover Mother-and-son but sourceless, O yours over The
hesitating treble must be his,

I glide about my metamorphosis
Gently, a tryst of troubled joy—discover Our pine-grove grown a mountain—the
true lover Soft as a flower, hummingbird-piercing, is.
I saw him stretch out farther than a wish And I have seen him gutted like a fish
At hipshot midnight for you, by your side.— Last night there in your love-
seat, you away, I sang low to my niece your song, and stray Still from
myself into you singing slide.

[ 96 ]
It will seem strange, no more this range on range Of opening hopes and
happenings. Strange to be One’s name no longer. Not caught up, not free.
Strange, not to wish one’s wishes onward. Strange, The looseness, slopping,
time and space estrange.
Strangest, and sad as a blind child, not to see Ever you, never to hear you,
endlessly
Neither you there, nor coming . . Heavy change!— An instant there is,
Sophoclean, true,
When Oedipus must understand: his head—
When Oedipus believes!—tilts like a wave, And will not break, only ἰού ἰού
Wells from his dreadful mouth, the love he led: Prolong to Procyon this. This
begins my grave.

[ 97 ]
I say I laid siege—you enchanted me . .
Magic and warfare, faithful metaphors As when their paleolithic woods and tors
The hunter and the witchwife roamed, half free, Half to the Provider and
the Mystery—
riddler bound: the kill, the spell: your languors I wag my wolf’s tail to—without
remorse?— You shudder as I’d pierce you where I knee I . . Only we little
wished, or you to charm Or I to make you shudder, you to wreck Or I to
hum you daring on my arm.
Abrupt as a dogfight, the air full of Tails and teeth—the meshing of a trek— All
this began: knock-down-and-drag-out love.

[ 98 ]
Mallarmé siren upside down,—rootedly!
Dare the top crotch, the utmost two limbs plume Cloudward, the bole swells just
below . . See, from Her all these leaves and branches! . . world-green . . free
To be herself: firm-subtle-grey-brown barky, A skin upon her gravest
thought: to roam, Sea-disinclined . . through the round stair I come, A
hollow. Board loose down near your rooftree.
. . I biked out leisurely one day because My heart was breaking, and swung up
with the casual Passion of May again your sycamore . .
Hand trembling on the top, everything was Beautiful, inhuman, green and real as
usual.— Your hypocrite hangs on the truth, sea-sore.

[ 99 ]
A murmuration of the shallow, Crane Sees us, or so, twittering at nightfall About
the eaves, coloured and houseless soul, Before the mucksweat rising of the
Wain.
No black or white here; and our given brain Troubles us incompletely; if we call
Sometimes to one another, if we fall Sorry, we soon forget; wing’d, but in
vain.
He fell in love once, when upon her arms He concentrated what I call his faith . .
He died, and dropt into a Jersey hole, A generation of our culture’s swarms
Accumulated honey for your wraith— Does his wraith watch?—ash-blond
and candid soul!

[ 100 ]
I am interested alone in making ready, Pointed, more splendid, O the Action
which Attends your whim; bridge interim; enrich That unimaginable-still,
with study
So sharp at time the probe shivers back bloody; Test the strange circuit but to
trust the switch.
The Muse is real, the random shades I stitch— Devoted vicarage—somewhere
real, and steady.
Burnt cork, my leer, my Groucho crouch and rush, No more my nature than
Cyrano’s: we
Are ‘hindered characters’ and mock the time, The curving and incomprehensible
hush
Einstein requires before that colloquy Altared of joy concludes our pantomime!

[ 101 ]
Because I’d seen you not believe your lover, Because you scouted cries come
from no cliff, Because to supplications you were stiff As Ciro, O as Nero to
discover
Slow how your subject loved you, I would hover Between the slave and rebel—
till this life Arrives: ‘. . was astonished as I would be if I leaned against a
house and the house fell over . .’
Well, it fell over, over: trust him now: A stronger house than looked—you
leaned, and crash, My walls and ceiling were to be walked on.— The same
thing happened once in Chaplin, how He solved it now I lose.—Walk on
the trash . .
Walk, softly, triste,—little is really gone.

[ 102 ]
A penny, pity, for the runaway ass!
A nickel for the killer’s twenty-six-mile ride!
Ice for the root rut-smouldering inside!
—Eight hundred weeks I have not run to Mass.— Toss Jack a jawful of good
August grass!
‘Soul awful,’ pray for a soul sometimes has cried!
Wire reasons he seasons should still abide!
—Hide all your arms where he is bound to pass.— Who drew me first aside? her
I forgive, Or him, as I would be forgotten by
O be forgiven for salt bites I took.
Who drew me off last, willy-nilly, live On (darling) free. If we meet, know me
by Your own exempt (I pray) and earthly look.

[ 103 ]
A ‘broken heart’ . . but can a heart break, now?
Lovers have stood bareheaded in love’s ‘storm’
Three thousand years, changed by their mistress’ ‘charm’, Fitted their ‘torment’
to a passive bow,
Suffered the ‘darts’ under a knitted brow, And has one heart broken for all this
‘harm’?
An arm is something definite. My arm
Is acting—I hardly know to tell you how.
It aches . . well, after fifteen minutes of Serving, I can’t serve more, it’s not my
arm, A piece of pain joined to me, helpless dumb thing.
After four months of work-destroying love (An hour, I still don’t lift it: I feel
real alarm: Weeks of this,—no doctor finds a thing),
not much; and not all. Still, this is something.

[ 104 ]
A spot of poontang on a five-foot piece, Diminutive, but room enough . . like
clay To finger eager on some torrid day . .
Who’d throw her black hair back, and hang, and tease.
Never, not once in all one’s horny lease To have had a demi-lay, a pretty, gay,
Snug, slim and supple-breasted girl for play . .
She bats her big, warm eyes, and slides like grease.
And cuff her silly-hot again, mouth hot And wet her small round writhing—but
this screams Suddenly awake, unreal as alkahest,
My God, this isn’t what I want!—You tot The harrow-days you hold me to,
black dreams, The dirty water to get off my chest.

[ 105 ]
Three, almost, now into the ass’s years, When hard on burden burden galls my
back, I carry corn feeds others, only crack
Cudgels, kicks on me, mountainous arrears Worsen—avulse my fiery shirt!—
The spheres May sing with pain, I grieve knee-down, I slack Deeper in evil
. . love’s demoniac
Jerguer, who frisked me, hops aside and jeers.
The dog’s and monkey’s years—pot’s residue, Growling and toothless, giggling,
grimacing— I hope to miss. Who in my child could see The adulter and
bizarre of thirty-two?— But I will seem more silent soon . . mire-king.
Time, time that damns, disvexes. Unman me.

[ 106 ]
Began with swirling, blind, unstilled oh still,— The tide had set in toward the
western door And I was working with the tide, I bore My panful of
reflexion firm, until
A voice arrested me,—body, and will,
And panful, wheeled and spilt, tempted nerves tore, And all uncome time
blackened like the core Of an apple on through man’s heart moving still . .
At nine o’clock and thirty Thursday night, In Nineteen XXXX, February
Twice-ten-day, by a doorway in McIntosh, So quietly neither the rip’s cold slosh
Nor the meshing of great wheels warned me, unwary, An enigmatic girl
smiled out my sight.

[ 107 ]
Darling I wait O in my upstairs box
O for your footfall, O for your footfáll in the extreme heat—I don’t mind at all,
it’s silence has me and the no of clocks keeping us isolated longer: rocks
did the first martyr and will do to stall our enemies, I’ll get up on the roof of the
hall and heave freely. The University of Soft Knocks will headlines in the
Times make: Fellow goes mad, crowd panics, rhododendrons injured. Slow
will flow the obituaries while the facts get straight, almost straight. He was
in love and he was had.
That was it: he should have stuck to his own mate, before he went a-coming
across the sea-O.

[ 108 ]
I owe you, do I not, a roofer: though My sister-in-law and her nephews stayed,
Not I stayed. O kind sister-outlaw, laid Far off and legally four weeks,
stoop low, For my true thanks are fugitive also Only to you;—stop off your
cant, you jade, Bend down,—I have not ever disobeyed You; and you will
hear what it is I owe.
I owe you thanks for evenings in that house When . . neither here, nor there, no
where, were you, Nights like long knives; . . two letters! . . times when your
voice Nearly I latched. Another debit to
Your kinder husband. From the country of Choice Another province chopt,—and
they were few.

[ 109 ]
Ménage à trois, like Tristan’s,—difficult! . .
The convalescent Count; his mistress; fast The wiry wild arthritic young fantast
In love with her, his genius occult,
His weakness blazing, ugly, an insult
A salutation; in his yacht they assed
Up and down the whole coast six months . . last It couldn’t: . . the pair to Paris.
Chaos, result.
Well—but four worse!! . . all four, marvellous friends— Some horse-shit here,
eh?—You admitted it, Come, you did once . . and we are friends, I say.—
‘La Cuchiani aima Tristan, mais . .’
(The biographer says) unscrupulous a bit, Or utterly … There, of course, the
resemblance ends.

[ 110 ]
‘Ring us up when you want to see us . .’ —‘Sure,’
Said Moses to the SS woman, smil—
ing hopeless Moses.—Put her whip and file Away and walked away, strip-
murderer, A svelte Lise, whistling … Knowing, it’s all your (Alas)
initiation: you I can’t: while We are relationless, ‘us’?—Hail, chat: cant,
heil!— Hypocrite-perfect! hoping I endure.
A winter-shore is forming in my eye, The widest river: down to it we dash, In
love, but I am naked, and shake; so, Uncoloured-thick-oil clad, you nod and
cry Let’s go!’ . . white fuzzless limbs you razor flash, And I am to follow
the way you go.
27 August

[ 111 ]
Christian to Try: “I am so coxed in it,
All I can do is pull, pull without shame, Backwards,—on the coxswain fall the
fiery blame, I slump free and exhausted.”—“Stop a bit,”
Try studied his sloe gin, “if you must fit A trope so, you must hope to quit the
game”
Pursued my brown friend with the plausible name “Before your heart enlarging
mucks you. Minute By minute you pull faster.”—But I too
Am named, though lost . . you learn God’s will, give in, After, whatever, you sit
on, you sit.
Try “Quit” said “and be free.” I freeze to you And I am free now of the fire of
this sin I choose . . I lose, yes . . but then I submit!

[ 112 ]
I break my pace now for a sonic boom,
the future’s with & in us. I sit fired but comes on strong with the fire fatigue: I’m
tired.
‘I’d drive my car across the living-room if I could get it inside the house.’ You
loom less, less than before when your voice choired into my transept hear I
now it, not expired but half-dead with exhaustion, like Mr Bloom.
Dazzle, before I abandon you, my eyes,
my eyes which I need for journeys difficult in which case it may be said that I
survive you.
Your voice continues, with its lows & highs, and I am a willing accomplice in
the cult and every word that I   have gasped of you is true.

[ 113 ]
‘I didn’t see anyone else, I just saw Lise’
Anne Frank remorseful from the grave: ah well, it was a vision of her mother in
Hell,
a payment beforehand for rebellion’s seize, whereby she grew up: springing
from her knees she saw her parents level. I ward your spell away, and I try
hard to look at you level but that is quite unaccustomed to me, Lise.
Months I lookt up, entranced by you up there like a Goya ceiling which will not
come down, in swirling clouds, until the end is here.
Tetélestai. We steamed in a freighter from Spain & I will never see those
frescoes again nor need to, having memorized your cloudy gown.

[ 114 ]
You come blonde visiting through the black air knocking on my hinged lawn-
level window
and you will come for years, above, below, & through to interrupt my study
where I’m sweating it out like asterisks: so there,— you are the text, my
work’s broken down so I found, after my grandmother died, slow, and I had
flown far South to her funeral spare but crowded with relations, I found her
last letter unopened, much less answered: shame overcame me so far I
paused & cried
in my underground study, for all the past undone & never again to walk tall,
lame at the mercy of your presence to abide.

[ 115 ]
All we were going strong last night this time, the mots were flying & the frozen
daiquiris were downing, supine on the floor lay Lise listening to Schubert
grievous & sublime, my head was frantic with a following rime: it was a
good evening, an evening to please, I kissed her in the kitchen—ecstasies—
among so much good we tamped down the crime.
The weather’s changing. This morning was cold, as I made for the grove,
without expectation, some hundred Sonnets in my pocket, old,
to read her if she came. Presently the sun yellowed the pines & my lady came
not in blue jeans & a sweater. I sat down & wrote.